---
layout: post
title:  "First Hackathon"
date:   2015-11-1 16:03:45
---
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Woo first hackathon! This last Friday and Saturday I was at the AT&T Internet of Things hackathon over in Redwood City, California. As it was my first hackathon, I was naturally extremely hyped up over it. After being through it, I can honestly say it was the best hackathon I have ever been to (because it was the only one I've been to so far). In all seriousness though, I had loads of fun and learned a lot. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; For our project, my team got to play with a Myo armband. Those of you familiar with this awesome piece of hardware know of the many functionalities it provides. Basically, the Myo armband allows users to interact with the virtual world using gestures and arm motion. It can track the position of your arm as well as muscle movements to quite accurately read what gestures you are doing with your hand. For instance, the armband can read when you are making a fist, vs open hand spread or moving your hands to the left or right. My team went on a slightly different route and took advantage of the muscle analysis functionalities of the Myo armband. Our goal for the project was to give physical therapy patients access to improved analytics about their exercise routines, such as quantifiable grip strength and arm movement. We streamed the raw EMG (electromyograph) data from the armband onto our server, where we filtered, rectified, and cleaned it up, before transfering the data out to the front end for the users to see. In addition, we took the quanternion data from the armband and transformed it into 3d data as well as rotational data. Unfortunately, we couldn't live stream the 3D data and had to make do with several 2D graphs instead. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;While we got our project working with a few functionalities, we ran out of time before we could develop a better front end with more user features. Instead, we had to make do with a basic front end for the demo. While I do wish we could have gotten more done during the 24 hours, I'm happy with what I got and still learned a good amount. For anyone thinking about attending a hackathon, my advice would be to just do it. Not only do you have a great time and learn a lot, you also make connections with other programmers which is also quite important. 
