---
layout: post
title:  "Life at a Coding Bootcamp"
date:   2015-11-15 15:03:45
---
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Something I observed as I was looking into coding bootcamps earlier this year was the lack of information on them on the internet. As I am currently attending one, I figured I would write about my experiences so far in an attempt to shed more light on this subject. Keep in mind that this is just to share some of my personal experience and should not be used as a replacement for your own research. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The bootcamp I am attending is called Coding House, and they are located in Fremont, California. Coding House is a bit different from most other bootcamps in two main respects. One, they do not charge tuition, except for a 6k deposit,  up front, but instead takes an 18% cut of your first year salary after you find a job upon graduation from the program. To my knowledge, the only other bootcamp that offers this deal is App Academy. The other main difference Coding House has compared to other bootcamps is that it is a live in bootcamp. What this means is that you live, eat, sleep, and code in a big house with all the other students in your group. The cost for the housing and dining, which isn't negligible here in the Bay Area, is also included in their 18% cut. I'm not sure if there are other bootcamps that offer a live in sort of program but I would not be surprised if there were a couple others out there that do. The curriculum here includes all the basic front end technologes: Html, Css, and Javascript, as well as back end technologies such as Node.js, MongoDB, and Express. While my class has not reached it yet, many of the popular front end frameworks and libraries will also be covered, such as React and Angular. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;At Coding House, class is scheduled 6 days a week, Mondays through Saturdays. You do get one day off a week on Sundays, although it is usually used to catch up on topics covered or for refactoring code. Class days are quite consistent and similar to each other. Class starts at 9 AM sharp and continues until lunchtime around 12:30. It starts with a morning scrum where everyone talks about their assignment from last night and what troubles, if any, they ran into. Then, class kicks off with a small code challenge, before going into a review of last night's assignment and working on any issues people had. After lunch is usually where new material is covered. The instructor will first go over the new material briefly, before demonstrating how to actually use the material. You are encouraged to follow along during the demo to help facilitate understanding of the topic. The afternoon session runs until dinner time, around 6:00 PM. After dinner, an assignment is given and everyone is let loose to either work on the assignment or work out with a fitness instructor who comes Mondays-Fridays. After finishing the night's assignment, usually around midnight or early morning, people will go to bed and repeat this again the next day. While this sounds repetitive and tediuous, and it is, you get used to the schedule rather quickly and it does help in keeping people disciplined and on track. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And that's it, a day at Coding House. If you have any questions, feel free to contact me. I will do my best to answer them. Do keep in mind, however, that this is the only coding bootcamp I have ever attended so I won't be able to make any comparisons with other bootcamps. 
